Conflicts with Manager:
1. for one of the projects last year, the customer issued an RFP. They are chances that the customer might choose another vendor
Management didnt want to lose the customer and hence was very aggressive in the deadlines and contract.

2. We felt the timelines were too tight and we might not be able to deliver it n even if we deliver, not sure about its quality.
3. Management wanted ppl to work on parallely and finish them even though lot of modules were dependent on one another.

What i did is :
1. Since the customer was our existing one, i got the logs, statistics, measurement reports etc and came up with a plan like
which modules/call flows are most frequently used and which are not.

2. with this, i devices a plan where we can go with phase wise delivery approach where we first deliver what customer is using most
frequently and once that is delivered, customer can start using them to begin their testing.
3. In subsequent phases we delivered the next critical items and so on. 
4. Management first didnt agree to it but somehow convinced them to get into a call with customer to explain this.
Customer agreed for this plan.
5. Thought the entire contract was not able to be delivered on the time, customer was happy because we delivered what they are using.
6. Then with little extention we met the SLA deliverables aswell.

Biggest Failure:
1. when i was 1 year experienced in diameter protocol, i was sent to US to get transition of SS7 protocol from an SME.
2. in my stay there for 2 weeks, i just recieved KT for 2 hours only. I raised this concern to the management, but they couldnt get
hold of him and i had to return back.
3. Then came an customer Sev1 emergency issue where we had to go into a war room setup with global recovery leaders and various
managers were there.
4. Since i was the one who got the KT, i was expected to solve the problem. I was able to give a stopgap solution
but i was not able to find the root cause of the problem. i suggested a rollback to what customer did but couldnt point out
what mistakes they did in the configuration. The big picture was still not clear for me in the SS7 protocol.
5. Asusual SME from US found the RCA and global recovery leaders shared their disappointments to my manager.
My manager knew that not much KT was given but still it was a major failure from my side.
6. Instead of waiting for KT, what i did is, i had the source code and we had lot of lab clusters. I log into the lab clusters and 
deploy my local build with lot of debug logs binary and spoil the configuration by deleting, modifying etc.
7. Lab cluster manager will raise ticket to Larry and i will also be cced. So when Larry login to fix the problem,
i immediately login and do history command and various other ways to find what he has done from the debug logs that i put.
8. I repeated this and eventually got a clear picture of the system.
9. I documented all the steps very clearly and was able to share with the support team in India so that they themselves were able
to solve such issues instead of depending on US person.
